SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT
THIS SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT IS A LEGAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN YOU, EITHER A SINGLE INDIVIDUAL, ENTITY
OR GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION AND EMBARCADERO TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND ITS AFFILIATES FOR THE SOFTWARE
YOU ARE LICENSING. CAREFULLY READ THIS AGREEMENT BEFORE YOU INSTALL OR USE THE SOFTWARE. BY
INSTALLING OR USING THE SOFTWARE OR BY CLICKING ON “ACCEPT” YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF
THIS AGREEMENT AND YOU REPRESENT THAT YOU HAVE THE AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT. ALL
SOFTWARE ORDERED THROUGH AN AUTHORIZED RESELLER OR DISTRIBUTOR IS GOVERNED BY THIS AGREEMENT. IF
YOU DO NOT HAVE THE AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT, OR IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THE TERMS OF
THIS AGREEMENT, YOU MUST NOT INSTALL OR USE THE SOFTWARE. THIS AGREEMENT, SHALL GOVERN YOUR
INSTALLATION AND USE OF THE PRODUCTS UPON THE EARLIER OF YOUR AGREEMENT TO PURCHASE A LICENSE FOR
SUCH PRODUCTS OR YOUR INSTALLATION OR USE OF THE PRODUCTS.
THIS SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT (this “Agreement”), dated as of the date of your purchase or receipt of a license to use the
Software, is between Embarcadero Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Licensor”) and the customer set forth on the Order
Form pursuant to which the licenses for the Software were purchased (“you” or “Licensee”), and sets forth the terms and conditions
whereby Licensor agrees to provide to you and you agree to acquire from Licensor one or more licenses to use certain software,
documentation and maintenance services related thereto, owned or licensed by Licensor, as set forth on the applicable Order Forms
delivered in connection with this Agreement. To the extent any terms or conditions contained in the Order Form conflict with the terms
or conditions contained in this Agreement, the terms and conditions of the Order Form shall supersede only those conflicting terms or
conditions contained in this Agreement and only to the minimum extent necessary to harmonize the terms in such Order Form with the
terms contained herein. The Order Form together with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, shall constitute and be construed as
a single agreement consisting of the terms and conditions contained in the Order Form together with the terms of this Agreement. This
Agreement specifically supersedes and replaces the terms and conditions of all prior agreements between Licensor and you, including,
but not limited to, any demo or trial agreements which may accompany or are embedded in Licensor’s products or which have been
previously in force between the parties. In consideration of the mutual promises and agreements contained herein, the parties hereto
also agree as follows:
1. DEFINED TERMS.
a. "Affiliate" means an entity that owns or controls, is owned or controlled by, or is under common control or ownership with
a Party, where "control" is the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and
policies of an entity, whether through ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
b. “Application” means any application, program or other software that Licensee develops using the Software.
c. “Desktop/Workstation” means a single physical machine, including but not limited to a personal computer, workstation,
laptop computer, desktop computer or mobile device, specifically excluding a Server, on which the Software is loaded or executed, that
is operated, either attended or via remote access, by one person at a time, and cannot be used by more than one person, directly or
indirectly, simultaneously.
d. “Developer” means any named identifiable individual person, not necessarily named at the time of a license grant,
regardless of whether or not the individual is actively using the Software at any given time, designated by Licensee to do any of the
following: (A) build, compile, assemble, test or otherwise cause to be executed any application programs that rely on the Software as a
component; (B) use or execute any Software programs for development, testing, or support purposes; (C) package or otherwise
prepare Software components for redistribution as part of another program or application; or (D) have possession of any Software
resources or files for any purposes other than archiving.
e. “Intellectual Property” means any and all tangible and intangible: (A) rights associated with works of authorship
throughout the world, including but not limited to copyrights, neighboring rights, moral rights, and mask works, and all derivative works
thereof; (B) trademark and trade name rights and similar rights; (C) trade secret rights; (D) patents, designs, algorithms and other
industrial property rights; (E) intellectual and industrial property rights (of every kind and nature throughout the world and however
designated) whether arising by operation of law, contract, license, or otherwise, not otherwise described herein; and (F) registrations,
initial applications, renewals, extensions, continuations, divisions or reissues thereof now or hereafter in force (including any rights in
any of the foregoing).
f. "Machine" means an attended or remotely controlled desktop, workstation or computer where the Software is loaded, that
is operated by no more than one person at a time.
g. “New Release” means new releases of the Software where the number to the left of the first “.” in the product designation
is changed by Licensor (e.g. “16.0.6360.0” is changed to “17.0.6360.0”).
h. “Non-Commercial” means any use of the Software which (A) is not undertaken for profit; (B) is not intended to produce
software, works, services, or data for commercial use; or (C) is neither conducted, nor funded, by a person or an entity engaged in the
commercial use, application, development or exploitation of works similar to the Software.
i. “Non-Production" means a non-operational environment into which the Software may be installed, which is not
processing live data, which is not running any operations of the Licensee and which has not been deployed to permit any users to
access live data. Non-Production environments include development and test environments. 
Page 2 of 6
Ver. 081017ns
j. “Order Form” means any of the following (A) online purchase transaction from the Licensor’s website; (B) a purchase
order or other written order form from you and accepted by Licensor in e-mail confirmation or by releasing Product Keys to you; (C) a
quotation issued by Licensor and signed by you; (D) any document accepted by and between a Licensor reseller or distributor pursuant
to which you may order Software from Licensor; (E) an invoice issued by Licensor; or (F) any other document that references this EULA
and is agreed to by Licensor in writing. All Order Forms are incorporated herein and governed by this Agreement.
k. “Production" means an operational environment into which the Software has been installed, which is processing live data
and which has been deployed so that the intended users of the environment are able to access the live data. Production environments
include quality assurance, disaster recovery, failover, and high availability environments.
l. “Software” means the specific version of the Licensor proprietary software product for which you are granted a Product
Key, in object code form only, licensed to you under this Agreement, including all documentation, Updates and all copies made by you.
m. “Server” means a physical or virtual machine which has a server operating system and/or where more than one person
can simultaneously use the computer either by direct or remote access.
n. “Update” collectively means all successor upgrades, revisions, patches, enhancements, fixes, modifications, additions or
maintenance releases of the Software where any number to the right of the first “.” in the product designation is changed by Licensor
(e.g. “16.0.6355.0” is changed to “16.0.6360.0), if any, licensed to you by the Licensor but does not include New Releases unless you
purchase a subscription license.
o. "Use" means to run, view, print, update, utilize, access, download, store, load, install, execute, display, or copy the
Software into the memory of a computer or otherwise benefit from using the functionality of the Software in accordance with its
documentation.
p. “User” means any named identifiable individual person, not necessarily named at the time of a license grant, regardless of
whether or not the individual is authorized by Licensee and actively Using the Software at any given time.
2. EVALUATION SOFTWARE. If you have acquired the Software for evaluation, trial or beta purposes you are permitted to install
and use one (1) copy of the Software for Non-Production evaluation purposes only for the limited time period as specified in the Order
Form. If no time period is specified, your usage is limited to a thirty (30) day period, and the Software may contain an automatic
disabling mechanism that prevents use of the Software beyond the permitted evaluation period. THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED FOR
EVALUATION PURPOSES IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, LICENSOR AND ITS RESPECTIVE EMPLOYEES, OFFICERS, DIRECTORS,
CONTRACTORS, DISTRIBUTORS OR AGENTS, MAKE NO WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS, EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,
ORAL OR IN WRITING, WITH RESPECT TO THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED FOR EVALUATION PURPOSES, INCLUDING ITS
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, MERCHANTABILITY, DURABILITY, QUALITY OR ITS NON-INFRINGEMENT AND
WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL,
CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES (INCLUDING LOST PROFITS AND LOST DATA) ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF OR
THE INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED FOR EVALUATION PURPOSES.
3. LICENSE GRANT.
a. Licenses Generally. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and your payment of all fees owing, from time
to time, under this Agreement, including, but not limited to the applicable licensing restrictions set forth herein, and subject further to
your full compliance herewith and according to the scope, time period and other terms indicated on the applicable Order Form delivered
in connection with this Agreement, Licensor hereby grants you and you hereby accept from Licensor, a non-exclusive, non-transferable
and non-assignable (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement) right and license to install, access and use the
Software for your internal business operations in the territory set forth in the applicable Order Form in accordance with the number and
type of licenses set forth in the applicable Order Form. You hereby acknowledge that the licenses granted hereunder and the
restrictions applicable to your installation and use of the Software will vary according to the type of license purchased by you, as
specified in the applicable Order Form. You hereby agrees to the following license restrictions and conditions applicable to the Software
set forth in the Order Forms delivered by you under this Agreement:
b. Per Developer License. During the subscription Term, subject to the Order Form and your payment of annual license fees,
Licensor grants you a non-transferable, non-sublicensable, non-exclusive, worldwide right and license for one (1) Developer to install
and Use the specific version of the Software purchased on any number of Machines owned, controlled and used exclusively by the
named Developer in order to create, develop and test Applications (the foregoing rights and license, a “Per Developer License”). To the
extent that you have a valid license for Delphi, C++Builder or RAD Studio Pro or higher editions (collectively, “Pro User Licenses”),
you may use the Software with such Pro User Licenses to connect to remote databases located on a machine other than the machine
on which the your developed Applications are installed and the foregoing shall be deemed a limited waiver of the restrictions contained
the Section entitled “Additional License Terms Applicable to Rad Studio, Delphi And C++Builder, Professional, Professional with Mobile
And Professional Academic Editions” in the end user license agreement for such Pro User License.
c. Royalty-Free Distribution License. During the subscription Term, subject to the Order Form and your payment of annual
subscription license fees, Licensor grants you a non-transferable, non-sublicensable, non-exclusive, royalty-free right and license to
deploy and distribute Application(s) developed by or for you which use the Software as a run-time component without owing additional
fees to Licensor, provided the Application(s): (A) contain no modifications to the Software (including alterations to the original
proprietary notices); (B) are in compiled, executable form; (C) do not provide substantially the same functionality as the Licensed
Software or have as one of their purposes to build other software that would compete with the Licensed Software; (D) do not reproduce
or distribute any portion of the documentation for the Licensed Software or document the Application in a manner that identifies the 
Page 3 of 6
Ver. 081017ns
programmatic interface to the callable routines in the Licensed Software; (E) are not a software development application that is sold
primarily to software developers or system integrators, or a development environment of any kind; and (F) are subject to a license
agreement that (i) limits Application end-users use of the Software to a run-time component, (ii) restricts the Application end-user from
changing, altering or modifying the Software, creating derivative works, translations, reverse assembling, reverse compiling,
disassembling, or in any way reverse engineering the Software, and (iii) prevents the Application end-user from sublicensing, renting,
distributing, leasing or otherwise transferring or assigning any portion of the Software (the foregoing rights and license, a “Royalty-Free
Distribution License”).
d. Termination. Upon expiration or termination of this Agreement, whether by you or by Licensor and whether due to nonpayment of renewal subscription license fees, breach of any term or condition or for convenience, you shall not be entitled to receive,
and Licensor shall have no obligation to provide you with, Updates or New Releases and the Per Developer License shall terminate and
you shall have no right or license to create or modify any Applications; provided, however, that (i) the Royalty-Free Distribution License
shall survive such termination, (ii) you may continue to distribute Applications created with the Software prior to such termination and
(iii) any sublicenses to use the Software as a run-time component as part of your Application granted by you to your end users prior to
expiration or termination shall survive.
4. BACK-UP AND DOCUMENTATION COPY. You may make a reasonable number of copies of the Software for Non-Production
purposes provided you reproduce all copyright and other proprietary notices that are on the original copy of the Software. Further, you
may make a reasonable number of copies of the Software user documentation (i.e. manuals and installation guides) for your internal
use in accordance with this Agreement, provided that you reproduce all copyright and other proprietary notices that are on the original
copy of Software user documentation.
5. LICENSE RESTRICTIONS. Licensor reserves all rights not expressly granted to you in this Agreement. Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, you acknowledge that the Software contains trade secrets and subject to applicable laws, you agree that
you will not: (a) copy the Software, except as permitted under this Agreement; (b) modify, adapt or translate the Software, except as
permitted under this Agreement; (c) de-compile, reverse engineer or disassemble the Software or otherwise reduce the Software from
object code to source code; (d) use the Software to develop any works which are competitive to the Software; (e) lease, rent, loan, sell
or distribute the Software to a third party (including, using the Software on a time-sharing basis, for service bureau purposes, or for the
provision of a fee generating service directly or indirectly to third parties) without the prior written agreement of Licensor; (f) except as
expressly permitted in this Agreement, assign or transfer your license rights to a third party or sub-license any or all of your license
rights under this Agreement without the prior written agreement of Licensor; (g) combine the Software with any other software (including
open source software), where the combined software is subject to the GNU General Public License or any other license that requires
the combined program or the Software and its source code to be made freely available; (h) publicize or otherwise disclose any results
of benchmark tests run on the Software; (i) You may not use multiplexing or pooling software or hardware that reduces the number
of individual human beings directly accessing or utilizing the Software; and (j) the Software may not be used by your Affiliated parties
unless specifically authorized in an Order Form.
6. USE BY THIRD PARTIES. Licensor acknowledges and agrees that the Software may, subject to the terms of this Agreement,
be used by your third-party service providers, independent contractors, consultants and outsourcers, provided that such third parties
agree to comply with the terms of this Agreement and such third parties Use the Software only for your benefit and business purposes.
If requested by Licensor, you will provide a list of any third parties that are using the Software pursuant to this Section to assist Licensor
in managing the licensing of the Software. You will remain responsible and liable for the proper use of the Software in accordance with
this Agreement by such third parties.
7. FEES. You agree to pay the applicable license fees for the Software and any applicable delivery charges, taxes, customs,
duties or other governmental fees, relating to the license for the Software. Payment for all fees shall be due thirty (30) following receipt
by Licensee of an invoice by Licensor specifying the amounts due, unless otherwise set forth in an Order Form accepted by Licensor.
All fees are nonrefundable. Any amounts not subject to a good faith dispute that are past due will incur interest at the highest rate then
permitted by law. Additionally, Licensor may suspend Updates and support services until the undisputed portion of your account is
brought current. You are responsible for paying the full amount of fees to Licensor regardless of any taxes or bank transaction fees
you are required to pay. Unless timely provided with a valid certificate of exemption or other evidence that items are not taxable,
Licensor will invoice you for all applicable taxes including, but not limited to, VAT, GST, sales tax, consumption tax and service tax. If
any withholding tax is required by applicable law to be paid by you in relation to payments due to Licensor hereunder, you will provide
Licensor with official receipts and/or certificates from the appropriate taxing authorities to establish that any applicable taxes have been
paid.
8. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY. All Licensor Material shall be delivered by Licensor to you via electronic delivery using a secure
internet download site. Ownership of all the licenses purchased hereunder and risk of loss for the related Licensor Materials shall be
deemed to have passed to Licensee on the date (the “Delivery Date”) that Licensor has made the Licensor Material available for
download by Licensee, notified Licensee of the availability of the Licensor Material for download and provided Licensee with all license
keys, if any, necessary for the installation and operation of the Software.
9. SOFTWARE SUPPORT, MAINTENANCE AND ENHANCEMENT. Support services for the Software and maintenance
Updates, including New Releases of the Software, are included in paid subscriptions during the subscription term. Licensor may
provide support directly or through its authorized agents, representatives, subcontractors or partners.
10. VERIFICATION. You acknowledge and agree that Licensor may, upon reasonable notice to you, request records to verify your
use of the Software complies with the terms of this Agreement. In addition, Licensor may, at its expense, audit the number of copies of
the Software in use by Licensee and the Machines on which the Software is installed at any time during the subscription term. Any 
Page 4 of 6
Ver. 081017ns
such audit shall be conducted during regular business hours at Licensee’s facilities and shall not unreasonably interfere with Licensee’s
business activities. If an audit reveals that Licensee has underpaid fees to Licensor, Licensee shall be invoiced for such underpaid fees
(based on the list prices in effect at the time the audit is completed); and if the underpaid fees exceed 5% of the License fees already
paid, then Licensee shall also pay Licensor the reasonable costs of conducting the audit.
11. OWNERSHIP. The Software is licensed and not sold to you. Licensor or its third party licensors and suppliers shall at all times
retain all right, title, and interest in the Software, Documentation, and Updates, including but not limited to any copies that You are
permitted to make herein (“Licensor Materials”). All applicable common law and statutory rights in the Licensor Materials, including,
but not limited to, rights in confidential and trade secret material, source code, object code, Intellectual Property rights, trademarks,
service marks, patents, and copyrights, shall be and will remain the property of Licensor. You shall have no right, title, or interest in
such proprietary rights except as provided in this Agreement. You recognize Licensor’s rights in the Licensor Materials and in the
Intellectual Property rights therein and will not at any time knowingly bring such title or validity into issue or in any way impair the title of
Licensor to any of such rights. By virtue of this Agreement, you acquire only the non–exclusive right to use the Licensor Materials and
do not acquire any rights of ownership to the Licensor Materials. Except for the license rights expressly granted herein, this Agreement
grants no additional express or implied license, right or interest in the Licensor Materials or other Intellectual Property rights of Licensor
or its Affiliates. Licensor reserves all rights not expressly granted to Licensee in this Agreement. You are responsible for any copyright
infringement that is caused by you or any of your contractors. Licensee agrees that Licensor's third party licensors and suppliers are
intended third party beneficiaries of all terms and conditions of this Agreement intended to protect intellectual property rights in the
Software.
12. TERM OF LICENSE; TERMINATION. The term of each subscription license shall be twelve months from the Delivery Date
unless the Order Form states otherwise and the license for the Software and this Agreement will terminate at the end of the
subscription term unless it is renewed. Each subsequent annual renewal subscription term will start on the day following the expiration
of the previous subscription term regardless of the actual subscription renewal date. The subscription term and each renewal thereof is
referred to herein collectively as the “Term.” You may terminate this Agreement at any time by providing written notice to Licensor,
however, you will remain liable for the full amount of license fees for the entire subscription term and you will not receive a refund of any
fees paid. If at any time you fail to make timely payment of any applicable fees due in respect of Software licensed or maintenance
service or use the Software in excess of the number of licenses purchased or violate any term or condition contained herein, then
Licensor may, in addition to any other remedy to which it may be entitled, terminate your license to the Software and any rights you may
have to maintenance services. Either party may terminate this Agreement, effective immediately upon written notice, if the other party
becomes the subject of a voluntary or involuntary petition in bankruptcy or any proceeding relating to insolvency, receivership,
liquidation or composition for the benefit of creditors, if that petition or proceeding is not dismissed with prejudice within sixty (60) days
after filing. If Your license term expires without renewal or reinstatement or otherwise terminates, then You shall promptly destroy or
return to Licensor all copies of the Software and related documentation in your possession or control. If Licensor is terminating the
license for cause, and you have acquired a subscription license, you remain liable for all unpaid subscription fees that are payable for
the entire subscription period. Within thirty (30) days following any expiration or termination, an authorized signatory of your
organization will certify in writing to Licensor that the original and all copies of the Software have been destroyed or returned to
Licensor. The provisions of Sections 1 (Defined Terms), 7 (Fees) for so long as any fees are due to Licensor, 10 (Verification), 11
(Ownership), 12 (Term of License; Termination), 13 (Indemnification), 14 (Disclaimer of Warranty), 15 (Limitation of Liability), 16
(General).
13. INDEMNIFICATION. You agree to defend, indemnify and hold harmless Licensor, its suppliers and its Authorized Partners from
and against liabilities, costs, damages and expenses (including settlement costs and reasonable attorney fees) arising from any claims
from anybody that result from or relate to you and your contractor’s use, reproduction or distribution of the Software or any permitted
Applications herein.
14. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY. THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, NON-INFRINGEMENT AND FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. FURTHER, LICENSOR SPECIFICALLY DOES NOT WARRANT, GUARANTEE, OR MAKE ANY
REPRESENTATIONS REGARDING THE USE, OR THE RESULTS OF THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE IN TERMS OF
CORRECTNESS, ACCURACY, RELIABILITY, CURRENTNESS, OR OTHERWISE. NO ORAL OR WRITTEN INFORMATION OR
ADVICE GIVEN BY LICENSOR OR ITS EMPLOYEES SHALL CREATE A WARRANTY OR IN ANY WAY INCREASE THE SCOPE
OF THIS WARRANTY, AND LICENSEE MAY NOT RELY ON ANY SUCH INFORMATION OR ADVICE. FURTHER, THE
SOFTWARE IS NOT FAULT-TOLERANT AND IS NOT DESIGNED, MANUFACTURED OR INTENDED FOR USE OR RESALE AS
ON-LINE CONTROL EQUIPMENT IN HAZARDOUS ENVIRONMENTS REQUIRING FAIL-SAFE PERFORMANCE, SUCH AS IN
THE OPERATION OF NUCLEAR FACILITIES, AIRCRAFT NAVIGATION OR COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS, AIR TRAFFIC
CONTROL, DIRECT LIFE SUPPORT MACHINES, OR WEAPONS SYSTEMS, IN WHICH THE FAILURE OF THE SOFTWARE
COULD LEAD DIRECTLY TO DEATH, PERSONAL INJURY, OR SEVERE PHYSICAL OR ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE ("HIGH
RISK ACTIVITIES"). LICENSOR AND ITS LICENSOR SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY OF
FITNESS FOR HIGH RISK ACTIVITIES. If a jurisdiction applicable to this Agreement restricts the exclusion of certain implied
warranties, limitations on how long an implied warranty may last, or the exclusion or limitation of incidental, consequential, or special
damages: (A) each warranty which cannot be excluded is limited in time to sixty (60) days from the date of Delivery; and (B) Licensor's
total liability to Licensee for breach of all such warranties are limited to the amount stated in Section 14 (Limitation on Liability).
15. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL
LICENSOR'S TOTAL AGGREGATE AND CUMULATIVE LIABILITY (IF ANY) TO YOU FOR ANY AND ALL CLAIMS OF ANY KIND
ARISING HEREUNDER EXCEED THE AMOUNT OF LICENSE FEES ACTUALLY PAID BY YOU FOR THE SOFTWARE GIVING
RISE TO THE CLAIM IN THE TWELVE MONTHS PRECEDING THE CLAIM. LICENSOR'S AND THEIR SUPPLIERS SHALL HAVE 
Page 5 of 6
Ver. 081017ns
NO LIABILITY TO YOU FOR ANY DAMAGES SUFFERED BY YOU OR ANY THIRD PARTY AS A RESULT OF USING THE
SOFTWARE. NOTWITHSTANDING THE FOREGOING, IN NO EVENT SHALL LICENSOR, OR ANY OF ITS RESPECTIVE
SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY LOST SALES, LOST REVENUE, LOST PROFITS, LOST OR CORRUPTED DATA, OR
REPROCUREMENT AMOUNT OR FOR INDIRECT, PUNITIVE, AGGRAVATED, EXEMPLARY, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR
LOSSES, HOWEVER CAUSED AND REGARDLESS OF THE THEORY OF LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY
TO USE THE SOFTWARE, EVEN IF LICENSOR AND/OR ANY OF ITS RESPECTIVE SUPPLIERS HAVE BEEN INFORMED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. EACH EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION IS INTENDED TO BE A SEPARATE AND
THEREFORE SEVERABLE EXCLUSION. The parties agree that the limitations specified in this Section 14 will survive and apply even
if any limited remedy specified in this Agreement is found to have failed of its essential purpose. The provisions of this Agreement
allocate the risks between Licensor and you. The fees reflect this allocation of risk and the limitations of liability herein.
16. GENERAL.
 (A) Each Party shall comply with all laws applicable to the actions contemplated by this EULA. You acknowledge that the
Software is of United States origin, is provided subject to the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, may be subject to the export
control laws of the applicable territory, and that diversion contrary to applicable export control laws is prohibited. you represent that (i)
you are not, and are not acting on behalf of, (a) any person who is a citizen, national, or resident of, or who is controlled by the
government of any country to which the United States has prohibited export transactions; or (b) any person or entity listed on the U.S.
Treasury Department list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons, or the U.S. Commerce Department Denied Persons
List or Entity List; and (ii) you will not permit the Software to be used for, any purposes prohibited by law, including, any prohibited
development, design, manufacture or production of missiles or nuclear, chemical or biological weapons.
(B) The Software is deemed to be “commercial computer software” and “commercial computer software documentation”,
respectively, pursuant to DFAR Section 227.7202 and FAR Section 12.212(b), as applicable. Any use, modification, reproduction,
release, performing, displaying or disclosing of the Software by the U.S. Government shall be governed solely by the terms and
conditions of this EULA. However, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall not apply to any agency procuring this Software on
behalf of the U.S. Government solely for the U.S. Government’s use.
(C) This Agreement is personal to you. You may not transfer, assign or otherwise convey, novate or encumber this Agreement
or the Software, in whole or in part, to any other party, including any parent, subsidiary or affiliated entity, whether through a Change of
Control which is voluntary or involuntary, by Merger, consolidation, dissolution, operation of law, or any other manner without Licensor’s
express written consent. For purposes of this Section 16(C), (i) a “Change of Control” shall include, but not be limited to, any merger,
consolidation, amalgamation, reorganization or sale, transfer or exchange of the capital stock or equity interests of Licensee in a
transaction or series of transactions which results in the holders of Licensee’s capital stock or equity interests holding less than fifty
percent (50%) of the outstanding capital stock or equity interests immediately following such transaction(s); and (ii) “Merger” refers to
any merger in which the Licensee participates, regardless of whether it is the surviving or disappearing entity. Further, you may not
delegate any performance under this Agreement without Licensor’s express written consent. Any purported assignment of rights or
delegation of performance in violation of this Section 16(C) is void. Licensor may assign its rights and obligations under this Agreement
(in whole or in part) without your consent.
(D) Any amendment of this EULA must be in writing and signed by both parties. Neither party will be deemed to have waived
any of its rights under this EULA by lapse of time or by any statement or representation other than by a written waiver by a duly
authorized representative. No waiver of a breach of this EULA will constitute a waiver of any prior or subsequent breach of this
EULA.
(E) This EULA, and all disputes arising out of or relating to this EULA, shall be governed by, and construed and interpreted in
accordance with, the laws of the State of Texas excluding (i) its conflicts or choice of law rules; (ii) the United Nations Convention on
Contracts for the International Sale of Goods; and (iii) the Uniform Computer Information Transactions Act, or any version, adopted by
any state. Except for a request for injunctive or other equitable relief, any dispute arising out of this EULA will be subject to the
exclusive jurisdiction of the courts located in Travis County, Texas.
(F) Neither Party will be responsible for any failure or delay in its performance under this EULA due to causes beyond its
reasonable control, including, but not limited to, general strikes or lockouts, shortages of or inability to obtain labor, energy, raw
materials or supplies, war, terrorism, riot, natural disasters or governmental action.
(G) If any provision of this EULA is deemed contrary to applicable law or unenforceable by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the provision will be severed from the EULA and all remaining provisions will continue in full force.
(H) This EULA including any website links, exhibits, and Order Forms is the complete and exclusive statement of the mutual
understanding of the parties and supersedes and cancels all previous written and oral agreements and communications relating to the
subject matter of this Agreement. No provision of any sales order, purchase order or other business form, including any electronic
invoicing portals and vendor registration processes, employed by you will supersede the terms and conditions of this EULA, and any
such document shall be for administrative purposes only and shall have no legal effect. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Licensor may,
from time to time, update the Licensor EULA with new releases of the Software. The version of the Licensor EULA that applies to you is
the version that is contained in the Software you are currently using.
(I) Any and all notices, requests, demands and other communications required or otherwise contemplated to be made under this
EULA shall be in writing and in English and shall be deemed to have been duly given (i) if delivered personally, when received; (ii) if
transmitted by facsimile, upon receipt of a transmittal confirmation; (iii) if sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, postage 
Page 6 of 6
Ver. 081017ns
prepaid, on the date indicated on the return receipt; (iv) if by international courier service, on the delivery date as may be confirmed to
the sender by such courier service; or (v) if by E-mail, when the recipient, by an E-mail sent to the E-mail address for the sender as
specified on the Order Form or by a notice delivered by another method in accordance with this section, acknowledges having received
that E-mail, with an automatic “read receipt” not constituting acknowledgment of an E-mail for purposes of this section. All such
notices, requests, demands and other communications shall be addressed as specified on the Order Form.
(J) You agree that Licensor may collect, maintain, process and use diagnostic, technical and related information, including nonpersonal information related to your device, computer, system, application software, or peripherals and personal information relating to
the geographic location and IP address from you access or install the Software, in each case as such information is necessary or
expedient to facilitate the provision of Software Updates, product support and/or compliance verification, and otherwise to improve the
Software and other software products and delivery of related services.
(K) The Software may be used by you to connect to or integrate with technology owned or controlled by a person or entity other
than Licensor and such activity may subject you to a service or license agreement with such person or entity. You agree to look solely
to such third party with respect to any such service or license agreement.
(L) Regardless of any language into which this Agreement may be translated, the official, controlling and governing version of
this Agreement shall be exclusively the English language version.
(M) You agree that Licensor can use the information provided during the purchase of the Software to deliver and confirm your
purchase or for other relevant purposes, as well as contact you again about other products, services, or offers.
