§ 1 Scope of this Agreement
(1) Licensor has agreed with Licensee to grant Licensee a license to use and exploit the software set out in the
License Certificate ("Licensed Software") subject to the terms and conditions of this Software License
Agreement (“Agreement”).
(2) Licensor shall also grant Licensee access to user documentation for the Licensed Software (“Licensed
Documentation”). The Licensed Software and the Licensed Documentation are jointly referred to as "Licensed
Material". Any data (e.g. files, data base materials) which is provided by Licensor in connection with the
Licensed Software or the Licensed Documentation is also part of the Licensed Material.
(3) Any updates for and modifications of the Licensed Material provided by the Licensor during the term of this
Agreement will also be provided subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, regardless of the fact
whether or not such updates or modifications are free of charge and regardless whether or not Licensor
explicitly refers to this Agreement.
§ 2 Grant of Rights; Restrictions
(1) Licensee acknowledges that Licensor is the sole owner of all rights in and all know-how pertaining to the
Licensed Material. Licensee shall forbear to attack those rights and will adequately inform third parties of
Licensor’s ownership of those rights.
(2) Licensor hereby grants to Licensee the non-exclusive, non-transferable right to use and exploit and the right
to copy the Licensed Material without limitation in time, manner or place subject to the terms and conditions of
this Agreement. With respect to the Licensed Software Licensor grants to Licensee also the non-exclusive and
non-transferable rights to revise and to compile the Licensed Software as far as mandatory legal provisions
prevent Licensor from the exclusion of such right; any further right to revise or to compile is excluded.
(3) The right to use and exploit is limited to the purposes described in this Agreement, especially the specified
Purpose of Use.
(4) The right to copy the Licensed Software herein is limited to the installation of the Licensed Software on a single
computer system which is in Licensee’s immediate possession and to fulfill the Purpose of Use. Licensee may
copy the Licensed Software as far as this is required for the loading, display, running, transfer or storage of
the Licensed Software on the computer system after the installation. Furthermore, Licensee is entitled to make
a copy for security backup purposes if and as required by mandatory legal provisions.
(5) The right to use and exploit and the right to copy the Licensed Documentation are limited to internal purposes.
Licensee may make printouts and/or additional copies provided that these printouts and/or copies are solely
used for internal purposes.
(6) Licensee may transfer the rights granted under this Agreement to a third party provided that the Licensed
Software is incorporated in Licensee’s products as described under the Purpose of Use and Licensee’s product
is sold or otherwise distributed with the Licensed Software being incorporated. For the avoidance of doubt,
Licensee may not sell, transfer or otherwise distribute the Licensed Software without it being incorporated in
Licensee’s products. Licensee shall ensure that all obligations under this Agreement are passed on to the third 
Beckhoff Automation GmbH & Co. KG
Huelshorstweg 20 | 33415 Verl | Germany
Phone: +49 (0) 52 46/9 63 - 0
Fax: +49 (0) 52 46/9 63 - 149
www.beckhoff.com
Page 2 of 7
Software License Agreement
for Beckhoff Software Products
party to which Licensee’s products are sold or otherwise distributed. Licensee may not retain any Licensed
Material after the transfer.
(7) More extensive rights, especially concerning the right to use and exploit the Licensed Software, are not granted
to Licensee. The provisions of this Agreement shall be narrowly construed in cases of doubt. Licensor’s
copyright of the Software shall not be exhausted by this Agreement.
(8) The Licensed Software may contain code provided by third parties for example but not limited to dynamic
program libraries (dll-Data). Such code is protected by third party’s intellectual property rights and license
conditions that – for the benefit of such third party – are subject to the restrictions of this Agreement. This code
may not be sold, distributed or in any other manner permanently or temporarily made available to third parties
neither against payment nor free of charge.
§ 3 Purpose of Use
(1) Licensor is licensing the Licensed Software to Licensee for incorporation in Licensee’s products. The Licensed
Software is designed to be incorporated in a hardware product, e.g. a manufacturing machine. Software is not
regarded as a product under this Agreement. Therefore, Licensee may only sell, transfer or otherwise distribute
the Licensed Software if it is combined with or incorporated in Licencee’s product.
(2) The Licensed Software is designed to be used on a single computer system identified by, among others, its
central processing unit (“CPU”). Licensee shall only use the Licensed Software on one CPU. If the CPU or the
other hardware components are changed Licensee may have to request new license keys from Licensor.
(3) Licensee may not use the Licensed Software on a computer system with more than one (1) CPU or on virtual
machines without Licensor’s explicit written authorization. For the avoidance of doubt, virtual machines under
this Agreement include all kind of virtualization techniques
(4) Licensee is responsible for providing the system environment in accordance with system requirements for the
use of the Licensed Software specified by Licensor
(5) Licensee may connect the Licensed Software to other software (facilitating interoperability). The Licensed
Documentation shall contain a description of the interfaces provided for this purpose. Otherwise, Licensee
shall not modify, translate, or otherwise edit and transform the Licensed Software. Neither shall Licensee
retranslate the software into the form of source programs or other modes of presentation. Any retranslation of
parts the Licensed Software for making an independently developed program interoperable with the Licensed
Software shall be subject to the applicable legal provisions.
(6) Licensor provides with the Licensed Software a tool to enable Licensee to create own software and to
incorporate such software with the Licensed Software in a hardware product. Licensor does not warrant that
the Licensed Software is suitable for any particular purpose. Licensee is obliged to examine the suitability of
the Licensed Software and any software based on or connected with the Licensed Software. Licensee shall
not incorporate the Licensed Software in any hardware product without adequate testing.
Beckhoff Automation GmbH & Co. KG
Huelshorstweg 20 | 33415 Verl | Germany
Phone: +49 (0) 52 46/9 63 - 0
Fax: +49 (0) 52 46/9 63 - 149
www.beckhoff.com
Page 3 of 7
Software License Agreement
for Beckhoff Software Products
§ 4 Protection of Licensed Material
(1) Notwithstanding the Grants of Rights, Licensor shall keep all rights of the Licensed Material, and that includes
any copies or partial copies of any Licensed Material made by or on behalf of Licensee. The foregoing shall
not affect Licensee’s property of data storage media, memory devices, and data processing devices.
(2) Licensee shall leave any notices of intellectual property rights, such as copyright notices and other reservations
of rights unchanged, and it shall adopt such notices without change into any copies made by Licensee of
Licensed Material in whole or in part.
(3) Licensee shall apart from the regulations of § 2 (6) neither make Licensed Material available to third parties in
original, nor as complete or partial copies, without Licensor’s express written consent. The same shall apply
in the case of complete or partial sale or dissolution of Licensee’s business enterprise. Licensee’s employees
or other persons shall not be considered to be third parties while they stay with Licensee in order to make use
of Licensed Material as provided under this Agreement.
(4) Licensee shall not modify or distribute the Licensed Material or parts thereof in a way that the Licensed Material
requires, as a condition of use, modification or distribution, that the code of the Licensed Software to be
disclosed or distributed in source code or others have the right to modify the code of the Licensed Software.
(5) Licensee shall completely delete any Licensed Material stored in data storage media, or memory devices, or
data processing devices before such media or devices are destroyed, sold, or otherwise passed on elsewhere.
(6) Licensee may either use a new version of the Licensed Material delivered by Licensor or waive such use.
(7) The Licensed Software is subject to a product activation process. Licensee may use the Licensed Software
for an evaluation (“trial”) period of seven (7) days with respective product trial activation. After expiration of the
evaluation period the Licensed Software can only be used continuously after the product activation process
has been successfully completed.
(8) In order to create license keys necessary for the completion of the product activation process, Licensor may
request certain data from Licensee. Licensee is obliged to answer Licensor’s requests in due course. Licensor
may also establish a direct connection between the computer system on which the Licensed Software is
installed and a system operated by or on behalf of Licensor in order to exchange the necessary data for the
product activation process.
(9) In addition to the product activation process, the Licensed Software may be protected by a software protection
dongle. If Licensor decides to protect the Licensed Software by requiring a dongle, such dongle shall be
delivered to Licensee at no additional cost or already be incorporated in the computer system for which the
Licensed Software shall be licensed.
(10) Licensee may not try to disable or bypass any protection established by Licensor unless explicitly permitted
by mandatory legal provisions.
Beckhoff Automation GmbH & Co. KG
Huelshorstweg 20 | 33415 Verl | Germany
Phone: +49 (0) 52 46/9 63 - 0
Fax: +49 (0) 52 46/9 63 - 149
www.beckhoff.com
Page 4 of 7
Software License Agreement
for Beckhoff Software Products
§ 5 Delivery
(1) Licensor shall deliver the Licensed Software for the exercise of the rights to use and exploit granted to Licensee
herein in machine-readable form at Licensor’s sole discretion either stored on a type of data storage media in
common use at the time or by making available the Licensed Software for download.
(2) Licensee shall receive the Licensed Documentation as electronic document unless agreed otherwise. The
Licensed Documentation can, also at Licensor’s sole discretion, be stored on the same or a different data
storage medium as the Licensed Software or it can be made available for download,
(3) If Licensed Material is made available for download Licensor shall provide Licensee with all information
necessary to download the Licensed Material, e.g. URL and/or passwords.
(4) If Licensed Material is delivered on a data storage medium and such medium containing Licensed Material is
damaged or deleted by mistake during shipment or after its receipt by Licensee, Licensor shall deliver a
replacement. Licensor may charge the delivery costs and the costs of the data storage medium to Licensee.
This provision also applies accordingly with respect to damaged or defective dongles.
§ 6 License Fees
(1) The licensee fees owed by Licensee to Licensor for the grant of rights hereunder are determined by Licensor
based on the License Certificate. The license fees represent a one-time license fee.
(2) Licensor will invoice the license fees to Licensee. Invoices are payable within 30 days of the date of the invoice
without any discount unless explicitly agreed otherwise in writing.
(3) All amounts in this Agreement are stated excluding any applicable Value Added Taxes (VAT) and sales tax, if
any. The current rate of statutory VAT and sales tax shall be invoiced and paid in addition to all fees. Licensor
shall state the rate and amount of VAT separately on the invoice.
§ 7 Warranty
(1) The parties agree that it is not possible to develop software such that it meets all the requirements of the
application without error. Licensor shall make available the Licensed Documentation explaining the intended
use and the conditions of usage of the Licensed Software, which shall always be kept up to date.
(2) Licensor warrants Licensee that the Licensed Software provided by Licensor is substantially in accordance
with the Licensed Documentation. There can be no claim under this warranty in the case of minor or immaterial
deviations from the agreed or assumed characteristics or in the case of merely slight impairment of use.
Descriptions given in the Licensed Documentation shall not be deemed guaranteed unless separately agreed
in writing. In respect of updates and modifications, the warranty shall be limited to the new features of the
update or modification compared to the previous version release.
(3) In case of a significant deviation from the Licensed Documentation, Licensor shall have the right and, unless
this requires unreasonable expenditure and unless it is technically not possible, the duty to remedy such
deviation by improvement, replacement delivery or replacement services. The remedying of a significant
deviation may also take place through the delivery or installation of a new version of the Licensed Software or 
Beckhoff Automation GmbH & Co. KG
Huelshorstweg 20 | 33415 Verl | Germany
Phone: +49 (0) 52 46/9 63 - 0
Fax: +49 (0) 52 46/9 63 - 149
www.beckhoff.com
Page 5 of 7
Software License Agreement
for Beckhoff Software Products
a workaround. If Licensor does not succeed in eliminating such significant deviations from the Licensed
Documentation within a period of time of reasonable length or is unable to avoid such deviations in a manner
allowing Licensee a usage of the Licensed Software as provided under this Agreement, Licensee may demand
a reduction of the licensee fees or, if the Licensed Software is rendered useless for Licensee, it may cancel
the license for the Licensed Software without notice against redemption of the licensee fees.
(4) Licensee shall make verifiable documents concerning the kind and the occurrence of such deviations in the
performance of the Licensed Software available to Licensor, and it shall cooperate in the localization of defects.
(5) This warranty shall not extend to defects caused by deviating from the conditions intended for the use of the
Licensed Software and explained in the Licensed Documentation. Additionally the warranty is excluded it the
Licensee does not install updates provided by the Licensor.
(6) The warranty period is limited to one (1) year and shall begin on the date of delivery of the Licensed Material
to Licensee. This warranty is exclusive of any warranty claims other than the ones mentioned under this § 7
and § 9.
(7) To give Licensor the possibility to reproduce erratic behavior of the Licensed Software Licensee shall inform
Licensor regarding erratic behavior of the Licensed Software including the environmental conditions, which
Licensee correct by itself or were corrected by a restart of the Licensed Software or were corrected by the
correction mechanism of the Licensed Software
§ 8 Liability of Licensor
(1) Licensor shall have unlimited liability in the event of intent and gross negligence of Licensor or Licensor’s
agents; in all other respects, liability shall be limited and/or excluded in accordance with the following
provisions.
(2) Licensor shall only be liable for slight negligence of Licensor or Licensor’s agents if an obligation which is of
particular importance for realizing the objective of this Agreement is infringed upon (i.e. a material duty). In this
case, liability shall be limited to the contractually relevant, foreseeable damage or loss; in all other cases,
liability for slight negligence shall be excluded in its entirety. Licensor shall, however, be exempted from any
liability for consequential damages, for lack of economic success, for indirect damages, and for damages
resulting from claims of third parties, in particular such damages resulting from the use of the Licensed
Software for the development of other software. Licensor’s liability does not include any compensation for
damages of a hardware product in which the Licensed Software is incorporated or caused by such a hardware
product. Furthermore, Licensor’s liability under this subparagraph is limited to the maximum amount equal to
the license fees for the Licensed Software.
(3) Licensor shall not be liable beyond the bounds set forth under subparagraph (1) and (2), except for insufficient
quality of the software through Licensor’s own fault or through the fault of its agents, but only if essential
functions of the supplied software are affected by such insufficient quality of the software, and for any other
breach or nonperformance of duties essential for the performance of this agreement through Licensor’s own
fault or through the fault of its agents.
Beckhoff Automation GmbH & Co. KG
Huelshorstweg 20 | 33415 Verl | Germany
Phone: +49 (0) 52 46/9 63 - 0
Fax: +49 (0) 52 46/9 63 - 149
www.beckhoff.com
Page 6 of 7
Software License Agreement
for Beckhoff Software Products
(4) The same limitations of licensor's liability as set forth under the foregoing subparagraph (2) shall apply to any
culpable breach of duties under this agreement committed by ordinary agents.
(5) Licensor's liability for a breach of guarantees, under the Product Liability Act and for death, personal injury or
damage to health caused by intent or negligence shall remain unaffected by the foregoing provisions.
§ 9 Intellectual Property Rights of Third Parties
(1) Licensor warrants that it has no present knowledge of an intellectual property right or copyright of a third party
which prevents the use of Licensed Material in accordance with this Agreement.
(2) It is in Licensor’s sole discretion to decide if Licensor defends Licensee against claims made for an infringement
of an intellectual property right or copyright caused by the Licensed Material while used as per this Agreement.
Licensee shall notify Licensor without delay of the making of any such claims. If Licensor does not defend
Licensee, Licensee shall be free to defend itself. Licensor shall assist Licensee in doing so, just as Licensee
is under an obligation to assist Licensor.
(3) If claims under subparagraph (2) have been asserted against Licensee, or if such assertions of claims must
be expected, Licensor may modify or replace the Licensed Material at its own expense as far as this is
reasonable for Licensee. Each party to this Agreement may cancel the license without notice if such
modification or replacement cannot be accomplished at a reasonable expenditure, or if a right of use cannot
be obtained at a reasonable expenditure. This notwithstanding, the provisions made under § 8 for the limitation
of Licensor’s liability shall be applicable correspondingly.
§ 10 Conditions of Usage
(1) The License Materials delivered to Licensee have been developed for being used in specific data processing
units and for the interaction with specific other software. These conditions of usage are set forth in the
performance description.
(2) If the License Materials are used in a manner not complying with the conditions of usage under sub-paragraph
(1) Licensor shall be discharged from any and all warranty obligations under § 7, 8 and 9.
§ 11 Termination, Return and Deletion of License Materials
(1) Licensee may cancel this Agreement as a whole or, if Licensee has acquired more than one license, in part
by giving one month's notice hereof to Licensor.
(2) This Agreement is subject to cancellation without notice by either party for good cause (”wichtiger Grund”); in
particular, but not limited thereto, in case of a breach of § 2, 3 and 4.
(3) As soon as a notice takes effect, regardless of its time and reason, Licensee shall return to Licensor the original
and all copies and partial copies of the Licensed Material. As far as the Licensed Software which is stored on
data storage media is concerned, the Licensed Software shall be completely deleted in lieu of being returned.
Beckhoff Automation GmbH & Co. KG
Huelshorstweg 20 | 33415 Verl | Germany
Phone: +49 (0) 52 46/9 63 - 0
Fax: +49 (0) 52 46/9 63 - 149
www.beckhoff.com
Page 7 of 7
Software License Agreement
for Beckhoff Software Products
(4) If Licensee replaces cancelled software by a successor application offered by Licensor it may keep the
canceled software for up to three months as a standby reserve. Any retention of an archival storage copy shall
be subject to a written agreement.
§ 12 Statute of Limitations, Miscellaneous
(1) Any claims made for a breach of § 2, 3 and 4 shall expire six (6) years after their accrual, any other claims
from this Agreement shall expire three (3) years after their accrual, unless shorter terms are applicable under
the statute of limitations.
(2) Any modification of or supplement of this Agreement shall only be valid if made in writing. This shall also apply
to amendments of this written form requirement.
(3) The parties agree that any disputes arising from this Agreement shall come under the exclusive jurisdiction of
the courts of competent jurisdiction over Verl, Germany.
(4) This Agreement is governed by the Law of the Federal Republic of Germany except for the United Nations
Convention on Contracts for the International Sales of Goods (CSIG).
